## A typical day on holiday in Samos

....................................

Quick note, no, my writing isn't actually this good. This is a short story written by my sister Susan. If you like it, let me know so I can convince her to start a blog!

....................................


‘Ginger!! Mango!! Avocado!!’

‘Ginger!! Mango!! Avocado!!’

‘Ginger!! Mango!! Avocado!!’


The man selling ginger, mangoes and avocados is right on time. It must be just after 6am when his shouting outside wakes me. I open my eyes slowly and it’s still rather dark in the room I am sleeping. I am in Marathokampos, a village in Samos, Greece and even though it’s already light outside, the room is darkened by heavy, wooden slates made for exactly that purpose. I know from
experience that the man shouting outside will continue to do so for a while whilst also playing loud music in his van, and that others selling anything from potatoes to freshly caught fish will soon join him. 

I roll over in the hope of dozing off before I fully awake to another summer’s day on the island of Samos. Around 9am I decide it’s time to get up. The room is still rather dark and if I didn’t check the time I would think it was still very early morning. The wooden slates certainly do their job! Outside on the balcony I can hear my mother-in-law moving around. She’s probably putting out some laundry to dry, or tidying up for the day. Possibly also trying to signal to us to get up and get the day started! Anyway, I wake up; open the slates and the windows. I leave the
curtains closed so as not to get too much of that summer sun into the rooms otherwise the heat will be absolutely unbearable.

First things first: a shower. I turn on the thermostat for the water boiler, which needs to be turned on for about 15 minutes to heat up the water. It’s a concept I am now familiar with, having been to Greece many times. The thermostat is turned on and MUST be turned off before the shower is taken. Apparently all sorts of nasty things can happen if you do not turn off the
thermostat first before using the hot water – like the boiler exploding. Though, I have observed one or two people forget to turn off the thermostat then go for a shower, but nothing has happened. 

I have yet to forget to turn it off – I am one of those people who will check that it’s off 5 times before I finally shut myself in the bathroom for my shower! And I’m certainly not willing to test the explosion theory, though I am curious. Shower done, I get dressed, ready for the day. Summer in Samos is hot. I remember my other half Petros telling me Greece is extremely hot in summer and regularly gets temperatures of over 40 degrees Celsius. I regret not believing him and actually mentally preparing myself for it! I remember thinking how much hotter can it be than Africa? True, my hometown of Harare, Zimbabwe is nothing to write home about when it comes to extreme heat, but I’ve lived in and visited Kenya and Tanzania, with Kenya being on the Equator and Tanzania being very close to it. THAT was heat. Or so I thought.

Now, having visited Samos and Larissa in the summer, I know what he meant. The heat is unbearable. Samos is better as you can take a dip in the sea to cool down, and also has lots of mountains, hence a breeze here and there. So even though it is only half past nine in the morning, I dress in less clothing than I’ve ever dressed in anywhere else. A summer dress, bikini underneath, and flip-flops. The hottest part of the day is always spend lying under a sunbed (with umbrella of course!) dipping in and out of the sea periodically. I wait for Petros to get ready then we head out, across the balcony, to the other part of the house where the others are. Basically it is two separate houses connected by a balcony. 

As soon as we step onto the balcony, the direct sun hits me. I walk quickly to the sanctuary of the living room of the main part of the house. As I do I look out over the balcony at the beautiful view. The house is located on the top part of the village, which is on a slope. So I can see the rest of the village, the huge church in the centre of the village, and the beautiful blue sea in the distance. ‘Kalimera!’ (good morning!) is said all round as we enter the other house. Inside is my mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law Vassilis/Bill and his fiancée Silia. The familiar smells of breakfast waft throughout the house. 
I can smell coffee, apple cake, dried bread and tahini/honey. “What do you want for breakfast?” says my mother-in-law. 
“Petros, coffee and apple cake? Maybe some bread and honey?” she continues, as she already starts preparing the breakfast. “And you Suzie? You don’t like coffee. Do you want juice?”. “Yes, just juice.” I say. “You must eat something else too! I’ll make you the same as Petros.” “Ok.” I say. Hungry or not, she will make me what she says she will, so I don’t argue, and when she brings the breakfast, we do actually eat it all. We all sit together for a while, planning the day. 

My Greek is not yet good enough to understand everything that is said. They do ask me once or twice if I am happy to do this or that, and all the things suggested sound more than alright to me. A swim before lunch, lunch at our favourite restaurant, a drive around the area, and a visit to a local bar afterwards. Around 11am, it’s time to head out to the beach. We go back to our part of the house, grab our sunglasses, hats and beach bags, and the four of us (Petros, Bill, Silia and myself) get into the car. Now, it is also possible to simply walk to the beach. It is a half an hour or so walk downhill, which is not a lot in the grand scheme of things. But two things make that very undesirable. One is just the idea of walking in that heat, and the other is the prospect of walking back home UPHILL. 
Absolutely no way. I have personally never taken that walk and I don’t ever intend to. Certainly not at the time of the year that we always go to Samos. We take the 10 minute drive to the popular area of Kampos, which is full of beaches, hotels, bars and shops. The drive would take less than 5 minutes if it wasn’t for the roads. As I’ve mentioned before, Samos is full of mountains, so the roads wind round the mountains, and also go up and down very frequently. Poor Silia suffers from carsickness and you can tell from her face every time we are in the car that she is suffering. 

I myself am not a fan of the roads either. Going down to Kampos is bearable, but other journeys, e.g. from the airport to the house, are more than I can bear. Apart from winding and going up and down, the roads are rather narrow and sometimes don’t have a barrier between the road and drop straight into the sea! Anyway, we arrive in Kampos and drive down the road looking for a parking space. We pass cousin Rania Isidorou’s supermarket and look to see if we can spot her to give her a wave. We also pass a Dr Isidorou, another Isidorou supermarket, an Isidorou hotel and an Isidorou restaurant. There are many Isidorous in Kampos and this is because an Isidorou from Marathokampos (who was related to Petros’s family) was the first to develop the area of Kampos into a tourist hotspot. Hence the many Isidorous owning many of the businesses down there. And since we go there every summer, we know most of them and always stop by to say hello. Other business owners in the area also know us, as we are rather friendly! And of course with there being hardly any black people visiting Samos I do stand out, especially as I am there every summer!